
# Geeny Go CLI

## Introduction

Our Go CLI is intended to be the "swiss army knife for Open APIs". We automate and
provide autocompletion when interacting with API's described through Swagger files.


## Installation

## Supported OS

* Linux `amd64` `386` `arm64` `arm`
* OS X `amd64`
* Windows `amd64` `386`

If you want something else supported, here is a [list](https://golang.org/doc/install/source#environment) of what can be supported. Just get in touch with your request.

## Getting Started

There are instructions and binaries available on our [developer website](https://developers.geeny.io/documentation/cli/).

## Dependencies

* [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)

## Building Source

You will need [golang](https://golang.org/doc/install) installed on your system. We currently use Go 1.7.4.

Get the code:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/geeny/go-cli.git
```

Add these entries to your rc file, normally `~/.bashrc` if you're using bash

```
export GOPATH=$HOME/go:<YOUR WORKING DIRECTORY>
export GOBIN=$HOME/go/bin
export NETRC=$HOME/.netrc
```

Ensure go is on your `$PATH` with `which go`. If it's not, you may also need to add

```
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin/go
```

Save changes and reload it with `source ~/.bashrc`

Then do:

* `cd geeny-cli-go`
* `go get ./...` to install dependancies
* `go install geeny` (also see circle.yml for production build flags)
* Run the cli with `$GOBIN/geeny`
> Note: To enable the special debugging option build it with the command: `go build -tags 'debug'`

## Unit Tests

You can run unit tests with `go test <PACKAGE NAME>`

## Make Binaries

Make sure the above steps work, then you can then create cross-platfom binaries with:

* `cd go-cli`
* `chmod a+x makeBinaries.sh`
* `mkdir bin`
* `sh makeBinaries.sh <OPTIONS> ./bin`.

makeBinaries.sh options:
* `-h` displays help
* `-f` force writes over any previous binaries

The directory you provide will contain folders organised by OS/ARCH.

## Configuration

Add this to `~/.geeny/cli.json` if you want to configure the cli

```
{
	"log.enable": false,
	"log.trace": false,
	"log.info": true,
	"log.warn": true,
	"log.error": true,
	"output.spinner": true,
	"config.env": true,
	"update.autocheck": true,
	"swagger.validate": false,
	"net.ca": "",
	"net.proxy": false,
	"net.timeout": 30000000000,
	"output.displayJson": false,
	"output.rawJson": true,
	"connect.url": "https://connect.geeny.io/",
	"connectSwagger.url": "",
	"api.url": "https://api.geeny.io/",
	"apiSwagger.url": "",
	"swagger.defaultContentType": "application/json"
}
```

## Setting up Completions

Once loaded hit [TAB] after typing the `geeny` keyword to get partial commands
completed or suggestions for sub-commands and options. Keep hitting [TAB] to get a
cursor driven menu over relevant options.

### bash

The bash completions are dynamically generated by re-running the cli with a special flag.

Ensure you have this directory: `/etc/bash_completion.d`
If you don't, run `mkdir /etc/bash_completion.d`

To install:

`cp ./completion/geeny_bash_completion /etc/bash_completion.d`

Then add this to your `~/.bashrc` file

```
source /etc/bash_completion.d/geeny_bash_completion
```

Save changes and reload with `source ~/.bashrc`

### zsh (simple)

The zsh completions are essentially the bash completions

Ensure you have this directory: `/etc/bash_completion.d`
If you don't, run `mkdir /etc/bash_completion.d`

To install:

`cp ./completion/geeny_zsh_completion /etc/bash_completion.d`
`cp ./completion/geeny_bash_completion /etc/bash_completion.d`

Then add this to your `~/.bashrc` file

```
source /etc/bash_completion.d/geeny_zsh_completion
```

Save changes and reload with `source ~/.bashrc`

### zsh (detailed)

These are updated by hand, so might sometimes be out of date.

To install, place the file `./completion/geeny_zsh_detailed_completion` in one of the
folders listed in your `fpath` variable. Assuming you are using OhMyZsh `fpath` is
usually set in `~/.oh_my_zsh/.oh-my-zsh.sh`. Else you can view it with `echo $fpath`.

When you've copied the file, rename it to `_geeny`.

Add `autoload -U compaudit compinit` to your `~/.zshrc` to load all completions each
time you open the terminal. If your `fpath` is set in your `~/.zshrc`, make sure this
line is added afterwards.

If there are still problems, try running `rm -f ~/.zcompdump; compinit` and
re-opening the shell.


The go cli is also self-documenting, just press enter on a command to print the usage.

## IDE

There are many tools to code in golang,
but [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has been useful. The main
plugin you will need is called `Go` by `lukehoban`. The internal plug-in manager will
help you with install this. In general, it will help install a bunch of useful
dependancies, codde anaysis, formatting and so on. This IDE also supports `delve`, a
Go runtime debugger with breakpoints.


# Contributing

## Coding convention

Here's
some
[info](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22688906/go-naming-conventions-for-const)
on the golang style used throughout the project

## Bugs

Please report any bugs / issues via the
github [issue tracker](https://github.com/geeny/go-cli/issues), with any
information on what you did and what error was displayed

## License

Copyright (C) 2017 Telefónica Germany Next GmbH, Charlottenstrasse 4, 10969 Berlin.

This project is licensed under the terms of
the [Mozilla Public License Version 2.0](LICENSE.md).

Inconsolata font is copyright (C) 2006 The Inconsolata Project Authors. This Font
Software is licensed under the [SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1](OFL.txt).
